[No audio]
Welcome to my living room and we are going to start our next tutorial.
And this is the Christmas ball wreath and I'm going to provide a link in the "more information" of this video.
If you're looking for ideas of what to do.
First thing you're gonna need to do is you're gonna need to do a little bit of shopping.
You're gonna have to get yourselves some balls.
And this is just what we need to do is get a standard coat hanger,
and what we need up here is that we just need to untangle the top section,
I've already done a little bit of it already. So that it opens up, so you don't need wire cutters or anything.
And then we start bending this into a circle.
So, I'm gonna pretend that I've just done that because I don't wanna waste your time.
So, you bend it into a most perfect circle that you can possibly get,
and because you're not going to see the wire, if it's not totally perfect, whatever, whatever, it's not a big deal.
So that's the first thing I want you to do.
So, you're gonna have to go out and get your balls and you're gonna need at least 80 balls.
And yes, that's a lot of balls, but... [laughs]
But what I found, I went to a store,
and apparently they had these big canisters, here.
And they were 32 balls inside for only $9.99, and they were clearance, half price.
And they're only plastic balls, but that's not a big deal.
And they work for me.
The next step you need to do is that you need to grab each ball.
So, I used several purple and pink are my colors and next week this whole house is going to get transformed over.
And what we need to do is that you need to get yourself a glue gun. Okay? So if you have a glue gun, crafting glue gun, this will be perfect.
And you see these little knobs that are, uh, at the top?
Well, these have a lot of pressure because they're being fastened to the wire.
So, what we need to do before you put it onto the wire, you have to glue in around the top section there, so that these things don't pop off.
And again, these are just plastic balls.
The next step what we need to do is now that you got the glue on, is that now you are just gonna be putting these on top, onto the actual ring.
Just like so. And they're gonna fall where they may.
And so, the thing about these things is that you wanna make it 3-dimensional.
So, you're gonna need a lot of balls.
In order to create because it has to go all the way around the ring, that's why you need so many of them.
So, once we get that done, uh, you're gonna really have, you'll find yourself adjusting. I would put them on top when you're lying this down,
and feeding them on, I would put them down on a towel so you don't scratch these balls because they are plastic and if you're going to use glass, you want to be delicate.
So, I put this down on a towel when you're feeding this all along.
And you're going to do it until you're totally packed in, all the way around.
And you can fasten the top shut.
And what I mean by fasten the top, what I did, I just went like this,
I just bent this down,
Okay, I bent this down and I just linked it.
That's what I did.
Okay.
So, that's what we did there.
The next step you're gonna have, is that you're gonna see a lot of gaps in between all the balls because the balls are the same size.
Uh, you're going to see too many gaps and it's not going to be great. And you can still see the wire.
So, what, I went to the Christmas store and I thought, "What am I going to do about it?"
So, what I realized is that some of the cheap ass decorations, they're shoving tinsel in between gaps just to kind of give it... it's really just a filler, in fact
even though you think it's all Christmas-y, it's really just a filler.
So what I suggest that you do is that you run out and go buy yourself some tinsel and in this case,  chose a really
thick, uh, tinsel, that was $1.99.
And what you see here is what, all you need to do is grab your tinsel,
and just start, and just, because this is just one sided,
right, the other side doesn't have all of this tinsel that you can't see.
So, what you just do is you just tuck in your tinsel.
In and underneath.
And by doing that, it causes the balls to really compress outward and really be looking full.
So, you're gonna go all the way around with that,
and right at the top, I provided extra tinsel at the top.
So, I start at the top, work my way around and I just weaving myself in behind so
if you want more tinsel, then don't push it so deep.
If you want less tinsel, just push it in further.
So, that was my next step.
The next thing that we did is that we looked at it and went, "Well, you know, it's still missing something."
It still doesn't have pizzazz.
So what was did was that we ran out and Daniel provided and bought these things here for $4.99. And it was a large string of just wire with
uh, plastic pink beads.
And this was one big, long wire, and what we did was that we just weaved it and pushed the wire
in and then all the extra pieces that are out
they're actually sticking out.
So, it gives it a 3-dimensional look.
And again, it's still missing something.
And realizing that the balls, because they're all the same size, it doesn't look as great.
So the next step that we did is that we went out and got these small balls.
And there was 24 of them for $4.99.
And all you gotta do is just
glue it, you glue it to the like the section on the side,
and then you push them, you know how it's got the tabby thing? You just
gotta push it upside down and then these are all glued to a big ball that's right beside it.
And that's how you complete this Christmas ball wreath. And it's actually a really great project.
And I would not say that it was a cheap project so this would be right about $35 or $40.
It all depends on what tinsel and the balls are pretty much the most costly thing in this project.
So, good luck and enjoy!
[no audio]